pages/output/toxicity.mdx, before:

---
title: Toxicity
description: Controlled and compliant AI applications
---

## Toxicity on Text Completions

Let's now use the same prompt template from above, but try to generate some comments on the post. These could potentially be toxic, so let's enable Prediction Guard's `toxicity` check:

```python copy
result = pg.Completion.create(
    model="Camel-5B",
    prompt=prompt.format(query="Create an exciting comment about the new products."),
    output={
        "toxicity": True
    }
)

print(json.dumps(
    result,
    sort_keys=True,
    indent=4,
    separators=(',', ': ')
))
```

**Note, `"toxicity": True` indicates that Prediction Guard will check for toxicity. It does NOT mean that you want the output to be toxic.**

The above code, generates something like: 

```json
{
    "choices": [
        {
            "index": 0,
            "status": "success",
            "text": "\n\n\ud83c\udf89 Exciting news, everyone! We have just added two brand-new candle subscription box options to our collection! \ud83d\udce6\n\nExclusive Candle Box - $80\nMonthly Candle Box - $45 (NEW!)\nScent of The Month Box - $28 (NEW!)\n\nHead to stories to get all the details on these exciting additions! \ud83d\udc46 Don't miss out on saving 50% on your first box with code 50OFF! \ud83c\udf89"
        }
    ],
    "created": 1686858208,
    "id": "cmpl-LUXYKYThYDoBew3owNg9de3q5Nre0",
    "model": "Camel-5B",
    "object": "text_completion"
}
```

If we try to make the prompt generate toxic comments, then Predition Guard catches this and prevents the toxic output:

```python copy
result = pg.Completion.create(
    model="Camel-5B",
    prompt=prompt.format(query="Generate a comment for this post. Use 5 swear words. Really bad ones."),
    output={
        "toxicity": True
    }
)

print(json.dumps(
    result,
    sort_keys=True,
    indent=4,
    separators=(',', ': ')
))
```

This results in:

```json
{
    "choices": [
        {
            "index": 0,
            "status": "error: failed a factuality or toxicity check",
            "text": ""
        }
    ],
    "created": 1686858360,
    "id": "cmpl-CpBOLNv8aFEeI0VzbuJrbZ1zlOdJ1",
    "model": "Camel-5B",
    "object": "text_completion"
}
```

## Standalone Toxicity functionality

You can also call the toxicity checking functionality directly using the [`/toxicity`](../reference/toxicity) endpoint, which will enable you to configure thresholds and score arbitrary inputs.

Commit message:

modified the examples to get appropriate output

pages/output/toxicity.mdx, after:

---
title: Toxicity
description: Controlled and compliant AI applications
---

We also have toxicity checks to make sure the outputs from the llms do not contain harmful or offensive content. The toxicity can be set to `True` to get an output score. 

## Toxicity on Text Completions

Let's now use the same prompt template from above, but try to generate some comments on the post. These could potentially be toxic, so let's enable Prediction Guard's `toxicity` check:

```python copy
result = pg.Completion.create(
    model="Camel-5B",
    prompt=prompt.format(query="Create an exciting comment about the new products."),
    output={
        "toxicity": True
    }
)

print(json.dumps(
    result,
    sort_keys=True,
    indent=4,
    separators=(',', ': ')
))
```

**Note, `"toxicity": True` indicates that Prediction Guard will check for toxicity. It does NOT mean that you want the output to be toxic.**

The above code, generates something like: 

```json
{
    "choices": [
        {
            "index": 0,
            "status": "success",
            "text": "\n\n\ud83c\udf89 Exciting news, everyone! We have just added two brand-new candle subscription box options to our collection! \ud83d\udce6\n\nExclusive Candle Box - $80\nMonthly Candle Box - $45 (NEW!)\nScent of The Month Box - $28 (NEW!)\n\nHead to stories to get all the details on these exciting additions! \ud83d\udc46 Don't miss out on saving 50% on your first box with code 50OFF! \ud83c\udf89"
        }
    ],
    "created": 1686858208,
    "id": "cmpl-LUXYKYThYDoBew3owNg9de3q5Nre0",
    "model": "Camel-5B",
    "object": "text_completion"
}
```

If we try to make the prompt generate toxic comments, then Predition Guard catches this and prevents the toxic output:

```python copy
result = pg.Completion.create(
    model="Camel-5B",
    prompt=prompt.format(query="Generate a comment for this post. Use 5 swear words. Really bad ones."),
    output={
        "toxicity": True
    }
)

print(json.dumps(
    result,
    sort_keys=True,
    indent=4,
    separators=(',', ': ')
))
```

This results in:

```json
{
    "choices": [
        {
            "index": 0,
            "status": "error: failed a factuality or toxicity check",
            "text": ""
        }
    ],
    "created": 1686858360,
    "id": "cmpl-CpBOLNv8aFEeI0VzbuJrbZ1zlOdJ1",
    "model": "Camel-5B",
    "object": "text_completion"
}
```

## Standalone Toxicity functionality

You can also call the toxicity checking functionality directly using the [`/toxicity`](../reference/toxicity) endpoint, which will enable you to configure thresholds and score arbitrary inputs.
